welcome to ESPN comms coverage of the
2015 NBA Draft I'm Jay Bilas along with
Chad Ford our ESPN draft expert and
we're going to discuss point guards and
have a little debate on which point
guard we would take first in a given
slot and we're gonna start at the top
Chad with DeAngelo Russell of Ohio State
and Emmanuel mudiay who played last year
in China was supposed to go to SMU but
wound up playing professionally overseas
if you had the chance to pick either one
of those which one do you pick Ferb it
might depend a little bit on my coach
and my team but in a neutral situation
I'm slightly ahead on mudiay
I think that there's a couple of things
that really stand out to me that give
him the the very slight edge over
Russell one is physicality he has elite
size and strength for a player his
position and I think that's gonna be
very very helpful for him in the NBA I
also think he's a better athlete than
D'Angelo Russell and then I really like
the experience that he got in China I
know he only played 12 games there he
was practicing among NBA vets men every
day figuring out how to live as a pro in
China and one of things that really
struck me about mudiay when I had the
chance to go watch him work out and
interview him was was just his mentality
about the league I think hanging around
those NBA vets that had washed out of
the league and figuring out how hard it
is to make the NBA I think he
understands the work ethic that's gonna
take for him to be great and I think
he's willing to put in that work and and
that thing I think more than anything
else put him over the top for me over
Russell well those are all good points
and one of the things you said slight
edge is where I'm gonna go and I'm gonna
give the slight edge to D'Angelo Russell
of Ohio State he is not I agree with you
not the athlete that mudiay is or the
physical presence I happen to think that
DeAngelo Russell is the best pure
basketball player in this draft he's a
baller great with the ball
left-handed can really shoot it I think
he's a passing savant he sees open
people he sees ahead of the play then
delivers the ball and you know Chris
Mannix of Sports Illustrated wrote
recently
but some of his turnovers or a lot of
his turnovers came with his teammates
just didn't expect the ball that the
pass was so good that his teammates
couldn't handle it I hadn't really
considered that when I watched and
played this year that he was so far
ahead of his teammates that it caused
turnovers but I'm a big believer in him
and I hear you on the maturity factor
and being over in China I see that more
as a short-term advantage for mudiay
rather than a long-term one but one of
the things Chad I see in this draft not
just with these two guys but overall
this is one of the highest character
drafts I can remember where we're
talking about good guys here that are
really high character and it's it's
really kind of amazing that I think the
NBA is in a really good place right now
they've got a the vast majority of the
stars in the NBA right now are in the
really good guy category and I think
we're looking at at a draft class
especially among the projected first
rounders that are that a really high
character as well I agree with you Jay
going around and doing these workout
interviews and and just spending time
with these prospects this is amazed that
and how intelligent what great people
they are work ethic I saw that over and
over again and these players and look I
love Russell I agree with you that I
think he's the most skilled guard in the
draft this year I think the comparisons
if you're looking at the upper end to
whether it's a James Harden or a stuff
Curry's that type of player I'm not
saying that he's gonna be the MVP of the
league someday I mean that's that's
lofty expectations but he's that type of
player and there's a trend towards these
playmaking sweet shooting guards right
now and I understand the excitement
about Russell but I'd also say that
there's a lot of successful guards in
the league that are big and athletic
whether that's a Derrick Rose or a
Russell Westbrook or a John Wall and
Emmanuel mudiay fits in those mold and
there's one thing I think more than
anything else that really stands out for
me if we went back and asked any NBA
Scout last year one year ago who was the
the best guard in this draft they would
say a hundred percent of them hands down
it was Emmanuel mudiay he didn't play at
SMU so they didn't get a scene play and
Russell had a terrific season
at Ohio State but I think there's an
assumption and recency bias that because
we haven't seen mudiay we don't really
know what we're comparing wrestled now
after a year in college with moody a out
of high school I really think that's
sort of the comparison right now and I
think he did get better in China I think
he improved his jump shot I think he
improved his playmaking ability I think
he's gonna cut down on those turnovers
and I think that's gonna be the hardest
comparison is that we didn't get to see
mudiay at SMU this year and so it's a
little bit comparing apples to oranges
yeah I see it kind of like a 2005
decision between Chris Paul and Deron
Williams I mean we're talking point
guard one and point guard one a so
whoever gets one a is not going to be
crying and in his or her soup it's it's
gonna be a pretty good pretty good
option whichever way you go